
PmDefaults is a stand-along application used to set preferences for MIDI input
and output devices. The preferences are read by the PortMidi library when it is
initialized, and the application can easily open the devices set by PmDefaults.
In this way, PortMidi applications can run without any special code to offer
device selection. Of course, advanced programs like Audacity can implement
their own self-contained selection and preferences, ignoring preferences set by
PmDefaults.

To use PmDefaults, you must install it. Note that you must have the Java
runtime system installed since PmDefaults is written in Java.

When you run PmDefaults, you will see pull-down lists for Input and Output
devices reported by your system to PortMidi. If you add or remove a device, for
example by plugging/unplugging a USB interface or starting software that
creates a virtual port, you might want to press the Refresh Device Lists button
to update the choices.

Select the input and output device(s) you wish to use and click the Update
Preferences button. You can test devices: input from the selected input device
causes the little indicator light to the right of the input selection to light
up. To send a note-on to the selected output, press the Test button to the
right of your selection.

To set preferences to your current selections and make them visible to PortMidi
applications, click the Update Preferences button.

Once preferences are set with Update Preferences, you can exit PmDefaults, and
the preferences will remain in effect until you change them. If you leave
PmDefaults running, note that ports will be open (see the previous paragraph on
testing) and that may prevent an application from opening a device. You should
click on the Close/Release Ports button to close the devices held by PmDefaults
before you try to open them with another application.


